
***

Open Media Rating System (OMRS)

Version 1.00 - 2024, Monday, November 11th at 09:37 pm PST

The Open Media Rating System (OMRS) is a free, libre, and open source, public domain alternative to the MPAA and ESRB rating systems. It was created due to the unfree and highly restrictive nature of the MPAA rating system and ESRB rating system, both of which require Trademark compliance with some very bad actors. By having a less restrictive rating system, it is hoped that it will be free, more effective, and more friendly.

The rating system will be federated by default (it is encouraged that federated sites (similar in nature to Mastodon) can rate content, and host ratings) ratings can be registered by special groups of federated sites. Due to the more open nature of this system, others can register ratings as well, even if they are not federated.

Media types (8 groups)

🕹️ VG - Video Game
💾️ SO - Software/other
🎞️ FL - Film/movie
🖼️ SI - Still image/picture
🎵️ AU - Audio/music
📔️ DO - Document/book/manual/text
🐽️ OD - Odor/smell
❓️ OT - Other/undefined

Note: Other/undefined is reserved for new media types that currently don't exist.

Discretion notes (? tags)

To be defined

Minimum age ratings (8 groups)

✅️ 0-3
✅️ 3-6
☑️ 6-9
⚠️ 9-12
⚠️ 12-15
⛔️ 15-18
🔞️ 18-21
🔞️ 21+

Note: age ratings are on a basis of maturity. People of different ages should be able to watch what they want, as long as they know what to repeat, what not to repeat, and what is morally good and/or bad, with the exception of gore and sex, which should be restricted to certain ages in most cases. TL;DR: viewer discretion is advised

Trigger warnings (? tags)

To be defined

Counters

Swear count
Slur count
Insult count
Innuendo count
etc

Additional flags

- [ ] Contains mild gore
- [ ] Contains gore
- [ ] Contains mild swearing
- [ ] Contains swearing
- [ ] Contains excessive swearing
- [ ] Contains slurs
- [ ] Contains hate speech (intended for content in a historical setting)
- [ ] Contains threats (intended for content in a historical setting)
- [ ] Contains racism (intended for content in a historical setting)
- [ ] Contains sexism (intended for content in a historical setting)
- [ ] Contains political content
- [ ] Contains physical abuse
- [ ] Contains verbal abuse
- [ ] Contains sexual humor
- [ ] Contains sexual imagery
- [ ] Contains sexual intercourse

Note: sexual acts that are not involving intercourse are considered softcore, while sexual intercourse is considered hardcore. Hardcore is always 18+ while softcore can sometimes be allowed in the 12-15 or 15-18 and up categories (normally in a historical or artistic setting, such as the Statue of David, Florence, Italy, and similar uses in academic and artistic nature)

SVG symbols for ratings:

Coming soon

Languages:

English
More coming soon

It is encouraged to start this system off by rating public domain, or content licensed under a public domain compatible Creative Commons license (such as CC-0)

License: Unlicense

```license-text:plain-text
This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to <http://unlicense.org>
```

This is going to be pushed out into its own separate repository once ready.

Related projects:

V7Tags

***

